---
author: kjakovljevic
comments: true
date: 2012-01-18 16:10:11+00:00
layout: post
link: http://www.nimbleschedule.com/nimblenews/blog/employee-scheduling-software-what-benefits-does-it-offer/
slug: employee-scheduling-software-what-benefits-does-it-offer
title: 'Employee Scheduling Software: What Benefits Does It Offer?'
wordpress_id: 92
categories:
- Blog
---

While many business owners have heard about employee scheduling software and its many uses, not all have delved down to what it really translates to in terms of benefits for the company. Time and cost savings are two of the most obvious advantages but there are even more. Let’s find out just how automatic scheduling can improve efficiency all around, eliminating scheduling headaches and increasing your bottom line.

**●Saves time and money.**

One of the most significant savings that can be had with a scheduling software is time, and as they all say - time is gold. It is not uncommon to find shift managers spending hours dealing with excel spreadsheets, or worse, even manually plotting charts and tables just to properly match employees, work schedules, and tasks. If the process were automated though, a job that previously took an hour or two to complete, can now be done in mere minutes.

Think about the hundreds of hours that can be saved annually and the corresponding increase in productivity and savings in financial resources. Labor costs are also within control because no one can log in hours exceeding his allocation for the week unless duly approved by management. For an astute businessman, these benefits alone would be enough reason to invest in an employee scheduling software.

**●Prevents loss of opportunity.**

Poorly organized employee scheduling can also bring about loss of opportunity. In any fast-growing business, every person counts. Being under-staffed could result to inferior product quality, poor customer service, or orders being turned down. With online work scheduling software, you are guaranteed that no shifts or locations are left undermanned because you always have access who works when.

In case a worker begs for some time off due to illness of personal concerns, it’s easy to find a replacement because you can immediately check who is available to serve as alternate. Further, with most scheduling programs, SMS alerts or email notifications can be sent to the substitute employees so they will be informed straight away of the additional work or change in schedule.

**●Helps you find the right person for the job.**

Having to manually browse through the files of various employee just to find the suitable person for a particular job can be frustrating, not to mention time-consuming. Employee scheduling software can also help with this because it’s not only a computerized scheduler, it can also serve as a quick database for your employees. With just a few clicks, you will be able to access information on staff members including contact data, skills and the corresponding level of these skills, and previous work experience. This should give you a good gauge of the capability of a person to perform a specific task or added duties.

**●Allows a more hands-on management.**

Everything may be automated; but it doesn’t mean that you pay less attention to the goings-on around you. On the contrary, work scheduling software has made it very convenient to monitor employee availability or non-availability, ensure that all shifts and all locations are adequately staffed, and keep track of payroll costs.
Relevant statistics, graphs, and tables may even be generated by the software for higher management appraisal, and to further assist you in tracking scheduling trends and minimizing labor expenses.

**●Provides employee convenience.**

Occasionally, employees may need to take some time off for various reasons, and such absence may cause disruption in the business. Utilizing staff scheduling software however ensures that operations continue to run smoothly despite the no-show of some personnel. Equally important, employees don’t have to jump through hoops to get some hours or days free, even if such leave is unexpected. A much-needed visit to the dentist for instance, will not have to be indefinitely postponed, and a sick family member can be given priority without having to worry about what's happening at work.

This is because the concerned employees can simply swap shifts with others who are available on those days. Or, the shift manager can leave such days as “open” for others to “pick up” for some extra work. These changes can all be made via the scheduling software.
Whether you have 50 or 500 employees, employee scheduling software can make organizing your schedules simple and fuss-free. If you want to realize savings in time and payroll costs, promote productivity, and maximize your employees’ skill and availability, then it’s high time you give it a try. [Sign up for a free trial today](https://app.nimbleschedule.com/account/create)
